# Distortion Effects

### Harmonic Enhancer

Adds high frequency harmonics to brighten very dull recordings that don't respond to [Equalization](https://manual.audacityteam.org/o/man/equalization.html).

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/Enhancer.ny" %}
Download Plug-in
{% endfile %}

<details>

<summary>Details</summary>

Author: Jvo Studer

Adds high frequency harmonics to brighten very dull recordings that don't respond to [Equalization](https://manual.audacityteam.org/o/man/equalization.html). On already good recordings, you can add a little extra "sparkle" or "air". The harmonics are generated by soft-clipping the high frequency band as in a diode limiter, then recombining this signal with the original.

Parameters:

1. **Enhancer Crossover Frequency:** \[2000 to 4500 Hz - default=3200] - lower this for very dull sources, or increase it to add only very slight or subtle high frequency harmonics.
2. **Enhancer Drive:** \[-10 to 10 dB - default = 0] - increase this to generate more harmonics and vice versa.
3. **Harmonic Generator Mode:** \[Even order,Odd order - default = Even] - generates even harmonics or odd harmonics. Even harmonics tend to be less harsh.
4. **Enhancer Noise Gate Threshold:** \[-40 -16 dB - default = -28] - increase this to prevent adding un-necessary noise in quieter recordings.
5. **Enhancer Mix Level:** \[-26 to +6 dB - default = -10] - how much of the generated harmonics are mixed into the original audio.
6. **Output:** \[Mix (Normal),Effect Only,Effect Level - default = Mix] - the two "effect" modes let you see and hear the generated harmonics on their own. Use "Effect Level" specifically to test if the Enhancer Drive level is set correctly. Edit > Undo and run Harmonic Enhancer in Mix (Normal) mode to apply the effect.

</details>

### Tape Saturation Limiter

A tape saturation simulation effect.

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/Tapesat.ny" %}
Download Plug-in
{% endfile %}

<details>

<summary>Details</summary>

Author: Jvo Studer

A tape saturation simulation effect. When used as intended this plug-in enhances the apparent loudness of an audio track, adding just a little controlled distortion, similar to the effect of recording on a tape-based recorder with a "hot" signal. It is based on a soft clipping limiter but also "shapes" the high frequency response. The effect is not calibrated for precise modelling of a real tape recorder, but nevertheless should be capable of producing a similar tonal character.

1. **Saturation threshold:** \[-6 to -1 dB. Default = -3 dB]. The level at which the soft clipping begins.
2. **Limiting ratio:** \[1 (soft) to 4 (hard). Default 2]. The "hardness" of the clipping. High values will tend to create a more harsh sound.
3. **High freq. saturation crossover:** \[2000 to 9000 Hz. Default = 4500 Hz)] The crossover frequency where high frequency signals are limited earlier than low frequency signals.
4. **High freq. saturation reduction:** \[-8 to -1 dB. Default = -5 dB] Sets by what amount the limiting of high frequency signals exceeds that of low frequency signals. The more negative this setting, the more that high frequencies will be shaped.
5. **Auto make-up gain:** \[(choice) Off or On. Default = Off] Applies amplification after processing to make up for the lowering of the peak level produced by the effect.

</details>

{% hint style="info" %}
It is recommended to [Normalize](https://manual.audacityteam.org/o/man/normalize.html) the audio track to 0 dB before applying this effect so that the Saturation threshold can be conveniently set to a predictable level.
{% endhint %}

